What we're going
to talk about now
is show some examples of
so-called short circuit
operations.
We've talked about them
in the previous lesson.
And now I'm going to go through
and give you a bit more details
about how they work.
So as we talked about earlier,
an aggregate operation--
be it intermediate,
be a terminal--
may process all the
elements in a stream.
For example, the map
intermediate operation
processes all of the
elements in its input stream
and produces an
output stream that
contains the results of
applying the macro function.
Now, of course, if
the macro function--
if that behavior were
to throw an exception,
then the control would
transfer from wherever
the exception was thrown up to
the first exception handler.
And so map doesn't always
guarantee to terminate.
But if it's going to
terminate prematurely,
it's because an
exception was thrown.
In contrast, short
circuit operations
halt further processing after
their condition is reached.
And there's a whole bunch of
examples here, one of which
is the takeWhile operation.
And this is a short-circuiting
intermediate operation
that returns a
stream that consists
of a subset of the elements
taken from this stream that
match the given predicate.
So as long as the
predicates matching, then
the stream will
continue to be taken.
But the second it doesn't
match, it'll stop.
So it takes the input as long
as the predicate matches.
So it short-circuits
if it stops matching.
Limit is another good example
of a short-circuit intermediate
operation.
And this says once
the condition is
met-- once we've reached
the size that we've
given as the parameter--
then stop any further stream
processing.
And then there's a whole pile
of these short-circuiting
operations that are terminal
operations. findFirst, findAny,
anyMatch, allMatch,
noneMatch, and so on.
And what these
methods do is they
will finish before
traversing all the elements
in the underlying stream if
something about the stream
doesn't match whatever
that terminal operation is
trying to do or if it
finds the first matches,
as is shown here.
So the second you find the
first match, you're done.
No sense in considering
anything further in the stream.